Second topic that I want to
talk about around staffing and
focus on in this segment
is internal mobility.
So once we've hired people, it's not
the end of the story for staffing.
A lot of people move jobs
inside the organization.
Figuring out how we can
optimize that process and
make sure we get the right
people into the right jobs.
Is somewhere else where
analytics can help.
And kind of a motivating idea for this
is getting beyond the Peter Principle.
So I don't know if many of you
are familiar with the Peter Principle.
So, one statement of it is, in time,
every post in an organization
is occupied by an employee who is
incompetent to carry out its duties.
Sometimes also summarized as people rise
to the level of their own incompetence.
It's kind of a cynical idea,
delightfully cynical.
But it's actually an intriguing
theory behind it and the basic idea
is in most organizations what gets
you promoted is how well you perform.
And so people who do well in their jobs
eventually will get promoted out of them.
Now, in an organization that
isn't aggressive about moving
underperformers out.
What, eventually, that means,
is people will keep getting promoted
until they hit a job that they can't do.
And then they're not gonna
get promoted out of that job,
and they're gonna stay in it, as well.
And as Peter and his co-author, Hull said,
consequence of that is ultimately,
we end up in organizations that
are largely staffed with people,
who've risen to a level within
a job they can't actually do.
So, it's not clear that this really
describes most organizations, but
I probably won't share it
with your boss anyway.
Nonetheless, it carries kind of
a grain of an interesting question,
which is to what extent does
success in a current job
actually predict performance
in the next job?
Should we be screening just for
are you good at your current job
when we think about who to promote?
Or another way of thinking about this
is what does predicts
success in higher level jobs?
Should we just be thinking
about are you good at your job?
Or should we be looking
at other things as well?
I think this is not an easy thing to
actually look at in many organizations.
The reason for this is that in most
organizations, you often don't know a lot
about people's performance in their jobs,
at least at the level at which you can
kind of put it down into
a systematic form and analyze it.
You have a performance evaluation
that says they're a high performer,
they're middle of the road,
or they're a low performer.
What you really want to be
able to do is more detailed
data on how they're performing
across multiple dimensions.
So you do see that in some jobs.
Like I said,
if you're in a call center, for
example, there's usually a wide variety of
information about kind of your efficiency,
your quality, your availability,
all of those sorts of things.
Sales, jobs,
you can see quite a lot about the
different kinds of sales you're making.
These days I think in a lot of
jobs we'll begin seeing more and
more data being collected automatically.
They enable us to see how people
are doing on varied things.
Another way that you might have varied
data on your people is where people rated
on various competencies
in the organization.
You wanna be a little careful with that,
certainly, when I've looked at that data,
what tends to happen is that high
flyers get rated as high on pretty much
everything and low performers get rated
as low on pretty much everything.
So how well that competence they'd really
tracks variation in individual competence?
I think it's more of question.
But you can also have formal assessments
done on them that really try and
individually look at these
different competences.
The idea is if you could rate people on
various dimensions of their performance
inside the organization.
Then what you could do
is look at whether or
not that performance predicts how
they would do at the next level.
And more specifically, which dimensions
of their current performance predict
whether they are going to be a high
performer in a high level job.
Alan Benson at the University
of Minnesota and
his colleagues did a very nice study on
this looking at data on sales people.
They had data on how
the sales people did and
also on the ones that became
sales managers, how they did.
As they could look at both what predicted
whether or not people got promoted and
also what predicted the performance of
the managers once they became managers.
And they found some evidence there.
You get promoted by being
the best sells person.
But the best sales managers were good at
selling, but they were also very good at
team sales and sales that spread
credit across their team.
Because to be a good manager you
need to be a team person there.
And so it really looked like
the way people were being promoted
was not entirely consistent with
who's gonna be the best manager.
And it's likely that's a feature
of many organizations.
So getting better understanding what makes
people best in the high level jobs and
how we can use that to promote people,
not just on their current performance but
on their potential would
benefit many organizations.